---
layout: page
title: QL Core
description: Workshops related to QL's core language features.
banner: banner-code-graph-shield.png
octicon: stack
toc: false
---

## Overview

The QL language used in the CodeQL analysis platform is a domain-specific
programming language that includes several powerful features that make it
well-suited for security analysis. Some of the key features of QL include
classes, predicates, modules, recursion, and types.

Classes in QL allow programmers to define and group related data and methods
together. This makes it easy to organize and manipulate data in a codebase.
Predicates are another important feature of QL that allow programmers to define
reusable queries for analyzing code. Predicates are similar to functions in
other programming languages and can be called from other queries or predicates
to build complex analysis pipelines.

Modules in QL provide a way to organize code and separate concerns. They allow
programmers to break a large analysis task into smaller, more manageable pieces
that can be developed independently. Recursion is another powerful feature of QL
that allows queries to call themselves repeatedly until a condition is met. This
makes it possible to analyze complex control flow and data flow patterns in
code.

Finally, QL includes a rich type system that allows programmers to define and
use complex data types in their queries. This makes it possible to model complex
data structures and analyze them in a meaningful way.

The QL Core workshops are designed to provide participants with a comprehensive
understanding of these other features of QL. Participants will learn how to use
these concepts to write effective queries for identifying security
vulnerabilities in code. By the end of the workshops, participants will be able
to use these features to write complex queries that can analyze even the most
challenging codebases.
